.TH NWIPE "5" "Feb 2026" "nwipe version 0.40" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nwipe \- securely erase disks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nwipe
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIdevice1\fR] [\fIdevice2\fR] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
nwipe is a command that will securely erase disks using a variety of
recognized methods.  It is a fork of the dwipe command used by Darik's Boot
and Nuke (DBAN).  nwipe is included with partedmagic if you want a quick and
easy bootable CD version.  nwipe was created out of a need to run the DBAN
dwipe command outside of DBAN, in order to allow its use with any host
distribution, thus giving better hardware support.  It is essentially the
same as dwipe, with a few changes:
.TP
- pthreads is used instead of fork.
.TP
- The parted library is used to detect drives.
.TP
- The code is designed to be compiled with gcc.
.TP
- SIGUSR1 can be used to log the stats of the current wipe.
.TP
- Additional wiping methods and PRNGs.
.TP
- Configurable I/O modes (cached, direct, auto) using large I/O buffers for higher throughput.
.TP
- Support for stable device paths such as \fI/dev/disk/by-id/\fR.
.PP
All PRNG implementations are seeded using the Linux
.BR getrandom (2)
system call instead of reading from
.IR /dev/urandom
via a file descriptor.

.SH DEVICES
.PP
Devices can be specified either as block device nodes (for example
.IR /dev/sda ,
.IR /dev/nvme0n1 ,
.IR /dev/mapper/cryptroot )
or via stable symlinks under
.IR /dev/disk/by-id/ .
nwipe will resolve these paths and operate on the underlying block device.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Prints the version number.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Prints a help summary.
.TP
\fB\-\-autonuke\fR
If no devices have been specified on the command line, starts wiping all
devices immediately. If devices have been specified, starts wiping only
those specified devices immediately.
.TP
\fB\-\-autopoweroff\fR
Power off system on completion of wipe delayed for one minute. During
this one minute delay you can abort the shutdown by typing sudo shutdown -c
.TP
\fB\-\-sync\fR=\fINUM\fR
Specify how often nwipe performs an fdatasync() during cached I/O mode.  
The value refers to the number of *device hardware blocks* (commonly 512 or
4096 bytes) written before triggering a sync. Since nwipe now writes using
large multi-megabyte buffers, this value is automatically scaled so the sync
interval in bytes is consistent with historic behaviour.

The default value (100000) results in a sync approximately every 50–400 MB,
similar to earlier nwipe releases. This ensures timely detection of I/O errors
while maintaining good throughput.

This setting has no effect when using --directio, as write() returns errors
immediately under direct I/O.

.IP
0    \- Perform one sync only at the end of the pass.
       Not advised; errors may only be detected after the entire wipe.

.IP
1    \- Sync immediately after each write.
       Extremely safe but extremely slow.

.IP
1000 \- Sync after the equivalent of 1000 hardware blocks.
       Useful for testing or more aggressive error detection.
.TP
\fB\-\-cachedio\fR
Use buffered I/O with large write buffers (page cache enabled). This is the
default on most systems and generally gives the best performance for
rotational disks.
.TP
\fB\-\-directio\fR
Use direct I/O with large write buffers. This opens devices with
.BR O_DIRECT
to bypass the page cache. It can be useful when running multiple wipes in
parallel or when you do not want to pollute the system page cache. On some
devices this may be slower than cached I/O.
.TP
\fB\-\-io\-mode\fR=\fIMODE\fR
Select the I/O mode explicitly. \fIMODE\fR can be:
.IP
\fBauto\fR   \- (default) automatically choose the best supported mode for
              the device and kernel.
.IP
\fBcached\fR \- force buffered I/O.
.IP
\fBdirect\fR \- force direct I/O (\fBO_DIRECT\fR).
.IP
Large I/O buffers are used in all modes to maximise throughput.
.TP
\fB\-\-noblank\fR
Do not perform the final blanking pass after the wipe (default is to blank,
except when the method is RCMP TSSIT OPS\-II).
.TP
\fB\-\-nowait\fR
Do not wait for a key before exiting (default is to wait).
.TP
\fB\-\-nosignals\fR
Do not allow signals to interrupt a wipe (default is to allow).
.TP
\fB\-\-nousb\fR
Do not show or wipe any USB devices, whether in GUI, --nogui or autonuke
mode. (default is to allow USB devices to be shown and wiped).
.TP
\fB\-\-nogui\fR
Do not show the GUI interface. Can only be used with the autonuke option.
Nowait option is automatically invoked with the nogui option.
SIGUSR1 can be used to retrieve the current wiping statistics.
.TP
\fB\-\-pdftag\fR
Enables a field on the PDF that holds a tag that identifies the host computer
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Log more messages, useful for debugging.
.TP
\fB\-\-verify\fR=\fITYPE\fR
Whether to perform verification of erasure (default: last).
.IP
off   \- Do not verify.
.IP
last  \- Verify after the last pass.
.IP
all   \- Verify every pass.
.IP
Please mind that HMG IS5 enhanced always verifies the last (PRNG) pass
regardless of this option.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-method\fR=\fIMETHOD\fR
The wiping method (default: prng).
.IP
dod522022m / dod       \- 7 pass DOD 5220.22\-M method
.IP
dodshort / dod3pass    \- 3 pass DOD method
.IP
gutmann                \- Peter Gutmann's algorithm
.IP
ops2                   \- RCMP TSSIT OPS\-II
.IP
random / prng / stream \- PRNG Stream
.IP
zero / quick           \- Overwrite with zeros (0x00)
.IP
one                    \- Overwrite with ones (0xFF)
.IP
verify_zero            \- Verifies disk is zero (0x00) filled
.IP
verify_one             \- Verifies disk is one (0xFF) filled
.IP
is5enh                 \- HMG IS5 enhanced
.IP
bruce7                 \- Schneier Bruce 7-pass mixed pattern
.IP
bmb                    \- Chinese BMB21-2019 State Secrets Bureau standard.
                         This method overwrites the device with ones (0xFF),
                         then zeros (0x00), followed by three passes of PRNG-
                         generated random data, and finishes with a final pass
                         of ones (0xFF). Designed to meet the BMB21-2019
                         technical sanitization requirements.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-logfile\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Filename to log to. Default is STDOUT.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-PDFreportpath\fR=\fIDIR\fR
Directory to write the PDF nwipe reports/certificates to.
Defaults to ".".
If \fIDIR\fR is set to \fInoPDF\fR no report PDF files are written.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-prng\fR=\fIMETHOD\fR
The PRNG option (default: aes_ctr_prng).
(mersenne|twister|isaac|isaac64|add_lagg_fibonacci_prng|xoroshiro256_prng|aes_ctr_prng)
.IP
\fBaes_ctr_prng\fR uses the Linux kernel AF_ALG interface to AES\-CTR as a
cryptographically strong stream generator. It is seeded via
.BR getrandom (2)
and requires kernel crypto support for AES\-CTR.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Anonymize serial numbers, GUI & logs display:
 XXXXXXXX = S/N obtained & anonymized.
 ???????? = S/N not available.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-rounds\fR=\fINUM\fR
Number of times to wipe the device using the selected method (default: 1).
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-exclude\fR=\fIDEVICES\fR
Up to ten comma separated devices to be excluded, examples:
 --exclude=/dev/sdc
 --exclude=/dev/sdc,/dev/sdd
 --exclude=/dev/sdc,/dev/sdd,/dev/mapper/cryptswap1
 --dev/disk/by-path/pci-0000:00:17.0-ata-1
.SH BUGS
Please see the GitHub site for the latest list:
(https://github.com/martijnvanbrummelen/nwipe/issues)

.SH AUTHOR
nwipe is developed by Martijn van Brummelen <github@brumit.nl>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR shred (1),
.BR dwipe (1),
.BR dd (1),
.BR dcfldd (1),
.BR dc3dd (1)
