.TH NWIPE "4" "March 2020" "nwipe version 0.27" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nwipe \- securely erase disks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nwipe
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIdevice1\fR] [\fIdevice2\fR] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
nwipe is a command that will securely erase disks using a variety of
recognised methods.  It is a fork of the dwipe command used by Darik's Boot
and Nuke (dban).  nwipe is included with partedmagic if you want a quick and
easy bootable CD version.  nwipe was created out of a need to run the DBAN
dwipe command outside of DBAN, in order to allow its use with any host
distribution, thus giving better hardware support.  It is essentially the
same as dwipe, with a few changes:
.TP
- pthreads is used instead of fork
.TP
- The parted library is used to detect drives
.TP
- The code is designed to be compiled with gcc
.TP
- SIGUSR1 can be used to log the stats of the current wipe

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Prints the version number
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Prints a help summary
.TP
\fB\-\-autonuke\fR
If no devices have been specified on the command line, starts wiping all
devices immediately. If devices have been specified, starts wiping only
those specified devices immediately.
.TP
\fB\-\-sync\fR
Open devices in sync mode
.TP
\fB\-\-noblank\fR
Do not perform the final blanking pass after the wipe (default is to blank,
except when the method is RCMP TSSIT OPS\-II).
.TP
\fB\-\-nowait\fR
Do not wait for a key before exiting (default is to wait).
.TP
\fB\-\-nosignals\fR
Do not allow signals to interrupt a wipe (default is to allow).
.TP
\fB\-\-nogui\fR
Do not show the GUI interface. Can only be used with the autonuke option.
Nowait option is automatically invoked with the nogui option.
SIGUSR1 can be used to retrieve the current wiping statistics.
.TP
\fB\-\-verify\fR=\fITYPE\fR
Whether to perform verification of erasure (default: last)
.IP
off   \- Do not verify
.IP
last  \- Verify after the last pass
.IP
all   \- Verify every pass
.IP
Please mind that HMG IS5 enhanced always verifies the last (PRNG) pass
regardless of this option.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-method\fR=\fIMETHOD\fR
The wiping method (default: dodshort).
.IP
dod522022m / dod       \- 7 pass DOD 5220.22\-M method
.IP
dodshort / dod3pass    \- 3 pass DOD method
.IP
gutmann                \- Peter Gutmann's Algorithm
.IP
ops2                   \- RCMP TSSIT OPS\-II
.IP
random / prng / stream \- PRNG Stream
.IP
zero / quick           \- Overwrite with zeros
.IP
verify                 \- Verifies disk is zero filled
.IP
is5enh                 \- HMG IS5 enhanced
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-logfile\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Filename to log to. Default is STDOUT
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-prng\fR=\fIMETHOD\fR
PRNG option (mersenne|twister|isaac)
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-rounds\fR=\fINUM\fR
Number of times to wipe the device using the selected method (default: 1)
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-exclude\fR=\fIDEVICES\fR
Up to ten comma separated devices to be excluded, examples:
 --exclude=/dev/sdc
 --exclude=/dev/sdc,/dev/sdd
.SH BUGS
Please see the GitHub site for the latest list
(https://github.com/martijnvanbrummelen/nwipe/issues)
.SH AUTHOR
Nwipe is developed by Martijn van Brummelen <github@brumit.nl>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR shred (1),
.BR dwipe (1),
.BR dd (1),
.BR dcfldd (1),
.BR dc3dd (1)

