ssd-guide.md, before:

﻿# Guide for the cancellation of solid state media (Sata / SAS / NVME)

The following information are without any warranty and indicate best practices as of the writing of this content.
All information should be validated for the precise model you want to sanitize. 

## Manufacturer Support for Standard Commands

Currently not all manufacturers have confirmed support for the following standard commands to clean all data from drives given that the support for sanitization is optional and not a mandatory aspect of the respective standards. 
* [SATA ATA/ATAPI Sanitization Command according to ACS-3 Standard](https://people.freebsd.org/~imp/asiabsdcon2015/works/d2161r5-ATAATAPI_Command_Set_-_3.pdf);
* [SAS Sanitization Command according to SBC-4 Standard](https://www.t10.org/members/w_sbc4.htm);
* [NVME Sanitization Command according to NVME Command Set Specification](https://nvmexpress.org/wp-content/uploads/NVM-Express-NVM-Command-Set-Specification-Revision-1.1-2024.08.05-Ratified.pdf).

The support to the best of our knowledge is the following:

| Manufacturer    	| Manufacturer Tool (MFT)                              	| SATA            	| SAS               	| NVME     	|
|-----------------	|------------------------------------------------------	|-----------------	|-------------------	|----------	|
| Samsung         	| Samsung DC Toolkit 2.1                               	| Use MFT*        	| Use MFT           	| Use MFT  	|
| Intel / Solidigm  | Solidigm™ Storage Tool                               	| Use MFT         	| Use MFT           	| Use MFT  	|
| Western Digital 	| supports SAS / SCSI format unit command        	    | hdparm sanitize 	| sg_utils sanitize 	| nvme-cli sanitize	|
| Sandisk         	| supports SAS / SATA / SCSI format unit command 	    | hdparm sanitize 	| sg_utils sanitize 	| nvme-cli sanitize	|
| SK Hynix        	| Unconfirmed for Linux                                	| N/A             	| N/A               	| N/A      	|
| Kioxia          	| Unconfirmed for Linux                                	| N/A             	| N/A               	| N/A      	|
| Micron          	| Unconfirmed for Linux                                	| N/A             	| N/A               	| N/A      	|
| Kingston        	| Unconfirmed for Linux                                	| N/A             	| N/A               	| N/A      	|
| Others          	| Unconfirmed for Linux                                	| N/A             	| N/A               	| N/A      	|

## Advised Procedure for sanitization of drives

1.  Complete an intial secure erase using the manufacturer tools or if supported by the manufacturer use hdparm, sg_utils or nvme;
2.  Follow up with SHREDOS/Nwipe with a single PRNG stream with verification (do NOT use Zeros/ones or any other methods given that PRNG data is extremely hard if not impossible to compress;
3.  Complete an additional secure erase using the manufacturer tools or if supported by the manufacturer use hdparm, sg_utils or nvme.

Commit message:

Typos and Wording
Extended the disclaimer regarding SSD Wipe and fixed two typos

ssd-guide.md, after:

﻿# Guide for the cancellation of solid state media (Sata / SAS / NVME)

# Disclaimer & Warning
The following information is given without any warranty and indicates best practices as of the writing of this content.
All information should be validated for the precise model you want to sanitize.
Any sanitization process should be validated by comparing blocks before and after sanitization assuring that the previous data has been overwritten.
Given that most of the manufacturer tools available today are closed source, it is not possible to determine if such tool does or does not effectively verify the outcome of a sanitization. 

## Manufacturer Support for Standard Commands

Currently not all manufacturers have confirmed support for the following standard commands to clean all data from drives given that the support for sanitization is optional and not a mandatory aspect of the respective standards. 
* [SATA ATA/ATAPI Sanitization Command according to ACS-3 Standard](https://people.freebsd.org/~imp/asiabsdcon2015/works/d2161r5-ATAATAPI_Command_Set_-_3.pdf);
* [SAS Sanitization Command according to SBC-4 Standard](https://www.t10.org/members/w_sbc4.htm);
* [NVME Sanitization Command according to NVME Command Set Specification](https://nvmexpress.org/wp-content/uploads/NVM-Express-NVM-Command-Set-Specification-Revision-1.1-2024.08.05-Ratified.pdf).

The support to the best of our knowledge is the following:

| Manufacturer    	| Manufacturer Tool (MFT)                              	| SATA            	| SAS               	| NVME     	|
|-----------------	|------------------------------------------------------	|-----------------	|-------------------	|----------	|
| Samsung         	| Samsung DC Toolkit 2.1                               	| Use MFT*        	| Use MFT           	| Use MFT  	|
| Intel / Solidigm  | Solidigm™ Storage Tool                               	| Use MFT         	| Use MFT           	| Use MFT  	|
| Western Digital 	| supports SAS / SCSI format unit command        	    | hdparm sanitize 	| sg_utils sanitize 	| nvme-cli sanitize	|
| Sandisk         	| supports SAS / SATA / SCSI format unit command 	    | hdparm sanitize 	| sg_utils sanitize 	| nvme-cli sanitize	|
| SK Hynix        	| Unconfirmed for Linux                                	| N/A             	| N/A               	| N/A      	|
| Kioxia          	| Unconfirmed for Linux                                	| N/A             	| N/A               	| N/A      	|
| Micron          	| Unconfirmed for Linux                                	| N/A             	| N/A               	| N/A      	|
| Kingston        	| Unconfirmed for Linux                                	| N/A             	| N/A               	| N/A      	|
| Others          	| Unconfirmed for Linux                                	| N/A             	| N/A               	| N/A      	|

## Advised Procedure for sanitization of drives

1.  Complete an intial secure erase using the manufacturer tools or if supported by the manufacturer use hdparm, sg_utils or nvme;
2.  Follow up with SHREDOS/Nwipe with a single PRNG stream with verification (do NOT use Zeros/ones or any other methods given that PRNG data is extremely hard if not impossible to compress;
3.  Complete an additional secure erase using the manufacturer tools or if supported by the manufacturer use hdparm, sg_utils or nvme.
